[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: Where ancient
wisdom and modern research
converge, divine
science emerges.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Do near-death experiences
and memories of past lives
imply the existence
of life beyond death?
A question once relegated
to spirituality and myth
is now at the forefront
of scientific inquiry.
In the US, the New York
Academy of Sciences
published a study indicating
that nearly 9 million Americans
have had experiences
suggestive of an afterlife.
Similarly, across the
Atlantic, the University
of Copenhagen's research shows
that about 10% of Europeans
report near-death experiences,
often described as more vivid
than earthly existence.
The intersection of near-death
and reincarnation research
suggests a consciousness
that might survive
beyond our physical
realm, prompting
renewed scientific and
philosophical inquiry.
Could there indeed
be an afterlife?
And what signs might
indicate its existence?
[PIANO MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DANNON BRINKLEY:
A lot of times,
when you come across what
people are the most afraid
of, it's this
thing called death.
Well, I can tell you
without any question
that there is no such thing.
How do I know?
I have been dead, and I have
come back from the dead.
No one dies.
It's the biggest lie
you will ever be told.
>>ADAM APOLLO: I've known
quite a few people who
have had profound
near-death experiences,
and the commonality that I find
between them is that nearly all
of them describe
an experience where
they entered this luminous
realm of heavenly experience.
Now, sometimes, before
they enter that realm,
there is a flashback
of their lives.
There's a deep internal
process that they
go through,
relinquishing, letting go,
grieving, sometimes
feeling scared, not
wanting to leave their
family, their loved ones.
And a lot of them tend to
also have a conversation
with a being on the other
side that says, hey,
you have two choices here.
You can either come with
me, or you can go back.
And those people all
chose to go back.
>>JEFFREY: No two near-death
experiences are the same.
But when you study a lot--
and I've studied over 4,000--
you see a very
consistent pattern
of elements or
characteristics, what happens
in a near-death experience.
A common first
thing that happens
is, of course, they have
that physical trauma
so severe that
they're unconscious
or even clinically dead.
Within seconds, the
electroencephalogram
measurement of brain electrical
activity is absolutely flat.
So we know that.
We know when a person
is unconscious,
we can measure it clinically.
We can see their
pupils don't dilate.
They're not breathing
spontaneously.
Their heart has stopped.
I mean, they're
literally shut down
at the level of the brainstem
after cardiac arrest.
And yet, by the
hundreds and hundreds,
we have people reporting
near-death experiences
at this time.
Again, absolutely no possible
explanation of physical brain
function whatsoever.
So at that time, when
they shouldn't have
any memory at all, they do.
A common first element
is what's called
an out-of-body experience.
Consciousness separates
from their body,
often laying on the
floor and rises above.
And from that
vantage point, they
can see and hear ongoing
earthly events, often
including frantic
efforts of people trying
to bring them back to life.
>>DANNON: When I
lifted out of my body,
I was burning and on fire.
And the flash of the
lightning had burnt my eyes
so much I could not see.
And I was paralyzed and on fire.
And then all of a sudden,
I lifted out of my body.
I have no pain.
I see myself lying on the bed.
I heard the paramedic
say, he's gone.
He's gone.
And I could feel this tunnel
forming over my left shoulder.
And I looked, and I was
pulled down this tunnel.
And I came into this place of
light, bright, beautiful light.
>>JEFFREY: And
then in that realm,
there in what we call
unearthly, or if you will,
heavenly realms, they
can also encounter what
we would call spiritual beings.
These are beings
variably described.
They may be called angels.
They may be called
spiritual beings.
The near-death
experiencer will often
ask the questions
that are, if you will,
some of the greatest
questions that we in humankind
have answered
throughout history.
And they get answers.
And what's so remarkable
is that these answers
are remarkably consistent.
Further strong evidence
that near-death experiences
are not the creation of prior
pre-existing earthly belief,
cultural beliefs, or
even religious beliefs.
But there's something
new, something dramatic,
information that
they're receiving
that is information that
they never knew of before
and couldn't even have
conceived of before.
>>DAVID: Such consistently
reported encounters across
diverse cultures and backgrounds
highlight a significant aspect
of the near-death journey--
the meeting with entities that
embody wisdom far surpassing
our worldly experiences.
>>DANNON: And then I moved
into this crystal cathedral,
and I'm met by these 13 beings.
And they radiated, and
there was a 13th being.
And the 13th being
controlled everything,
and it would designate a being.
And that being would
begin to radiate
until it was nothing but that.
But I could smell it and
sense it, and be around it.
I was not separate from
anything and nothing
was separate from me.
GEORGINA CANNON: We
always go in front
of a group called the Council,
the wise elders, the avatars,
where we can ask
anything we wish.
And they're not judges.
They are loving, kind, welcoming
beings that give us direction.
Not advice, but direction.
And usually, about
understanding--
a bigger purpose,
what our purpose is.
>>JEFFREY: They may have
what's called a life review.
They may become aware or
even all of their prior life.
And at that time, they're often
feeling intense, unearthly
positive motions and even have
a sense so often described
that this unearthly
beautiful realm seems
to be their real home.
>>DANNON: You're going to see
your whole life pass before you
in a 360 degree panorama.
You're going to watch it like
a second person point of view
as though you were
your own best friend.
And so when you see
how stupid you are,
you see how funny and
wonderful you are,
it doesn't have an ego to it.
It's like a friend telling
you, and then you're
going to literally become every
person that you ever encounter.
And you're going to
feel the direct results
of your interaction between
you and that person.
That means nobody gets
away with anything.
And the universe
is fair and just.
And then you will ask
yourself a question.
In the life you just reviewed,
what difference did you
and the divine make?
That is the single most
life changing structure
that almost everybody who's
ever had this experience says
happens to them.
So when you stop and look at
that panoramic life review,
and you see the impact it
has, if that's not the point
where you change
and shift, then you
are making a horrible,
horrible mistake
in the power of your thoughts,
the grace of your love,
your ability to reflect the
divinity in your actions
and your deeds,
and the elevation
of your spiritual consciousness
to the next octave.
>>JEFFREY: To me
personally, I think
some of the strongest
evidence for the reality
of a near-death experience
is these consistent, what
you could call
spiritual messages
that the near-death
experiencer brings back.
Over and over, they come
back with an awareness
that love is the predominant
force in the universe.
>>DAVID: Within the
scientific community,
there's a diverse range
of opinions when it comes
to near-death experiences.
>>JEFFREY: In my entire
life as a scientist,
it is absolutely amazing
to me, that disconnect
of near-death experience
skeptics between what we all
know is conventional
and appropriate science
and between how the skeptics
view and try to process
near-death experiences.
It's as if the skeptics
are so convinced
that near-death experiences must
be due to the physical brain
function that they completely
throw out the window all
that they learned
as a scientist,
in terms of scientific
methodology and investigation
and explaining
what you observed.
In science, you
would look at what
occurs during a
near-death experience,
you would observe all
the characteristics,
and then you would try to
develop a hypothesis that
explains what is
actually observed
during a near-death experience.
Well, speaking
collectively about skeptics
of near-death experience, that's
not the science they follow.
Over and over, we
hear people coming up
with ideas that
have nothing to do
with what we're
observing so consistently
in near-death experiences.
>>DAVID: While
near-death experiences
provide one layer
of understanding
about the continuity
of consciousness,
the concept of
reincarnation introduces
a different dimension to
the exploration of life
beyond its physical form.
Hypnotic regression offers
a significant Avenue
in this exploration, revealing
detailed past life memories.
When these recollections
are validated
with striking accuracy,
they provide not just
personal affirmations but
also substantial evidence
for the Soul's journey
across multiple lifetimes.
>> GEORGINA: In about 2010, a
major network came and asked me
if I would be prepared to work
with them to verify whether
past life regression
was real or not.
And I said yes, I would.
One of them was amazing.
He was a gentleman
in his mid 40s
I think who certainly did
not believe in past lives
before he did this.
And he was a Jesuit
priest trainee in Ireland.
And in the end,
he killed himself.
He committed suicide.
Of course, he didn't get
buried in the burial ground.
He was buried outside when
they took him back to Ireland,
because they took these
people back to where
they had that past life.
He was overcome with emotion.
And he knew exactly
where things were.
He knew where his room
was in that building.
He knew-- he just went.
He was just guided there, and
he'd never been there before.
This to me is verification.
>>ADAM: We as beings are
having a continuous stream
of experience.
That experience doesn't
end when we die.
We continue
experiencing ourselves
having the experience of, I am
the perception that we exist.
And then perhaps we
lose a little bit
of the memory of
everything that we've just
been through as
we shove ourselves
into a new tiny little packet
of cells becoming a body
and are born again.
Having another
lifetime of experience,
going through big changes,
learning new lessons,
growing as a soul before we die
and start the journey again.
Now, when we die,
does it all just end?
No.
We likely change the
way that our body works.
We are operating now
outside of a physical body,
but in a different body--
a body that is still assembled
of light, a body that still
operates with all
of these different
capacities to sense and
feel and relate with others.
And for those that have had
deep and profound afterlife
experiences, they
would describe it
as not that different from this
world, yet a little less fixed.
Things are a little less
tactile and tangible.
But like a dream, they
still can be experienced
with just as much
depth and realism
as each of our incarnations.
>>DAVID: Eastern philosophy,
as in other traditions,
sees the journey of
incarnation as a tapestry woven
from experiences and memories
carried within the subtle body.
This ethereal vessel,
encompassing the ego, mind,
and soul, holds the accumulated
qualities and karmic imprints
of past lives.
Though individuals
may not consciously
recall these past experiences,
they suddenly influence
the current life, shaping
thoughts, behaviors,
and one's personal journey.
DR. TONY NADER: And it must
be a protective mechanism
because to carry all
the load of memory
from before on a surface
level is not obvious.
But we do carry it on
some genetic level,
on some subconscious level.
And therefore, that's
why we come back
with certain characteristics,
with certain beliefs,
with certain patterns, with
certain conditions of life,
depending on our previous life.
>>ADAM: Upon death, the
spirit leaves the body--
what we call the spirit.
Now, that portion
that can exit the body
is literally every plane of
existence above the physical.
So our etheric body, our
astral body, our causal body,
our Akashic body, spiritual
body, celestial body.
Each of these higher bodies
all leave the physical body,
but maintain intactness
with themselves.
Where we go?
That's a difficult question
because where implies
space time to an extent.
And in a real sense, when
we enter the spirit world,
we're exiting the structural
dynamics that space time has.
And we're now entering a
new plane of existence--
or many planes of existence, in
which we can explore ourselves,
our spirit, our consciousness,
and other beings in new ways
that are definitively different
from our physical world
of incarnations.
>> GEORGINA: Life between lives
is the space between lifetimes.
It's the place where
the soul goes home.
You carry the experience of
your previous lives with you
into this place, and if
the soul has been bruised,
that's where it's healed.
There's wisdom to be gained.
That's where it's
inculcated, and that's
where you choose what's next.
>>DAVID: Sculpting the
trajectory of the soul
through its various incarnations
is the force of destiny.
This concept shaped by
diverse cultural, religious,
and spiritual
beliefs intricately
weaves with Karma
and reincarnation,
guiding the soul's journey.
TONY: So destiny is depending
on how many constraints you
have created, and
therefore, you're
going to face
certain consequences.
So the destiny of today is based
on the choice of yesterday.
When you grow in
consciousness, you
liberate yourself from
the boundaries of karma,
from the boundaries
of previous actions.
And therefore, you have
more freedom of choice.
And therefore, in
coming back, if you
want to put it in the
context of reincarnation,
you have a set of
constraints that
put you in certain situations.
But also, depending
on the consciousness
you have developed, you have
a certain level of freedom
in selecting the conditions
in which you can come.
>>DAVID: If choices from
the past shape our destiny,
influencing the freedoms
and constraints we encounter
in each incarnation, then
the question arises--
why would a soul choose a life
marked by pain and hardship?
>>GEORGINA: The question of why
we choose pain and suffering
is that the conscious
mind doesn't choose it,
but the soul chooses
it because maybe we
have something to learn.
Maybe we be we have
to learn humility.
Maybe we have to learn how
to be open and generous
and giving and forgiving.
It's a soul lesson
that we're here for.
Some people call it karma.
TONY: If you make
the wrong decisions,
you accumulate karma.
And that karma is
determined thing.
For example, you plant a
seed that creates apples,
and then a few years
later, you come back
and you want to eat mango.
So you say, I'm miserable
because I don't like apple
anymore, and I want now mango.
But you have planted the seed.
Now, if you raise
your consciousness,
you can take your
apples to the market,
sell them, and buy
mango and eat mango.
But if your
consciousness is limited,
you will only see the
apple tree and not
know that there is even an
option to do something else.
So freedom grows
with consciousness.
>>DANNON: As a
spiritual being, you
came here to enjoy
challenging yourself
and to reinforce a
belief in divine law
because you have life,
and you are alive.
>>DAVID: Beyond
individual choices
and karmic consequences,
there exists
a dimension where souls are
thought to form pre-life pacts.
These agreements
made with other souls
can shape various
aspects of life,
influencing challenges,
relationships, and shared
missions, intricately
intertwining their paths
with others in a dance
of spiritual evolution.
>>ADAM: Now, we may have
made those contracts out
of moments of great trauma
or moments of great pleasure
and bliss.
We have different reasons
why we choose to reconnect
with another person.
We may have made an oath
that I will haunt you
for the rest of your lifetimes.
Or we may have had an experience
where we realized that someone
is so deeply beautiful and
so important to us as a soul
that we want to reconnect
with them in every lifetime.
TONY: The soul has to
evolve, and therefore, it
finds the opportunities.
And it makes a
contract with existence
that allows it to evolve.
So what we take from this is,
whatever your situation is,
consider it to be the
best possible situation
for you to grow.
And so that is where we
have always the choice,
and we shouldn't assume
that if the situation is
not this goodness to someone
else that it's bad for us.
We always come in the very
best possible conditions
for our own evolution.
>>DAVID: The concept
of choice plays
a pivotal role in the soul's
journey across lifetimes.
Some beliefs advocate
that the soul itself
chooses its path, selecting
life experiences for growth
and learning.
Others propose that higher
powers or cosmic forces
guide these decisions,
aligning each incarnation
with a broader divine
plan or karmic blueprint.
>>DANNON: There's
like a billion of us
waiting to see who's
going to get chosen
to take that first breath.
Like a billion of us.
Come on.
To have free will?
Whoa, wait a minute.
And to be able to hug
somebody and feel my own love?
Well, wait a minute.
Let me go.
So what you do is, you set up
probable possibilities, OK?
Because the divine
mission-- you won't fail it.
You make choices of probable
possibilities of goals.
And then whatever
effects that come
into play, based on
achieving your goals,
creates the reality
that you're living in.
>>DAVID: Who we are
and whether that
is driven by a sense
of personal mission,
the pursuit of love, service,
or any other reason to exist
lies at the heart of
our quest to understand.
Is there more to life than
merely our physical existence?
>>GEORGINA: Your soul
journeys, and the wisdom
that both carry--
both your ancestors
that you can bring forward
and your soul journeys
that you can bring forward-- you
are so much more than you know
>>JEFFREY: We couldn't figure
out why some people have near
death experiences
and some don't.
But finally, one day, I
received a near death experience
that I think contained
the answer to that
from someone who had a
near death experience.
And she was in the
presence of God.
And she was having
such a remarkably
positive near death
experience that she just
asked God flat out, why me?
Why was I so special that this
should have happened to me?
And God's response was,
everyone is special.
Love falls on everyone equally.
This is what you needed
to live your earthly life.
And the moment I read that,
I think I said, that's it.
That explains it better
than anything else
I've ever read or considered.
>>ADAM: Our journey
through incarnations
teaches us about ourselves.
Some would say that the end
of the spiritual journey
is just seeking to dissolve
back into the infinite eternal
of God.
But I say, if you already are
God, and you came from God,
isn't the point of
the spiritual journey
then to experience all the
different ways that God can be?
What if both are just as sacred?
The experience of all
the diversity of life
is just as rich and
important as the experience
of oneness and wholeness.
This, I think,
from my own journey
is true, that I am a soul
seeking new experiences,
that if I wanted to dissolve
back into the source of all
that is, I could do so.
But personally, I
love being different.
I love forgetting.
I love remembering.
I love being human.
>>DANNON: We are great,
powerful, and mighty
spiritual beings with dignity,
direction, and purpose.
We were chosen, and we chose
to be here now at this time.
So is there a life after death?
Absolutely.
You will never die.
It will not happen.
>>DAVID: As we reflect upon
this intricately interconnected
journey, could it
be that what we
perceive as the end is
merely a transition,
a passage to a new
extraordinary chapter
of our infinite existence.
Join us for more episodes
on divine science,
where we continue exploring the
crossroads of modern research
and ancient wisdom.
[MUSIC PLAYING]